- **Predicting whether a water pump needs repair to reduce unnecessary inspections using a random forest classification model with emphasis on precision score.**
- After wrangling the dataset such as dropping constant columns, high cardinality columns and duplicate columns, creating new features, encoding features, the data is split into target while the rest of the columns are the features. Because this is a classification problem (whether a pump needs repair or not), our baseline is the majority of the class. A pipeline is created for the model that includes ordinal encoder, simple imputer and random forest classifier. Training data are fit to the model. A classification report is generated using sklearn metrics to display precision, recall and f1 scores for both categories of "repairs needed" and "no repairs needed". If we choose pumps randomly without a model by using the probabilty of pumps that need repair aka 0.46, given each inspection would cost $100, among the 2000 inspections conducted, only 910 actual broken pumps will be repaired, and $108,900 of funds would be wasted for sending people out to inspect a functional water pump. If a random forest model is used without any hyperparameter tuning, among the 2000 inspections conducted, 1607 actual broken pumps will be repaired, and a drastically lower amount of $39,300 would be wasted. If a random forest model is used where precision is emphasized by selecting only pumps that have a higher certainty (from 50% default to 85%) of needing repair, 1896 actual broken pumps will be repaired, and only $10,400 would be wasted.
